---
layout: post
title: Black boxes
---

When people ask me which college course I believe has been most beneficial to me I usually say Compiler Construction. In Compiler Construction we built a compiler for (Juliette)[www.example.org] in Haskell. I've never built a compiler outside the course nor have I used any of techniques I learned professionally. So why do I think this course was the best one in college? It's because I learned what compilers actually do. Of course I knew that my Java code was compiled to byte code which was interpreted or further compiled by the JVM. I now know what happens to my code when I press the green play button in my IDE. There's parsing and lexing and type checking etc... This blasted a hole in the black box that was the green play button. När har jag nytta av detta? Performanceproblem? Esoteric syntax? Nya språk?

I think that breaking black boxes is extremely powerful. For example, most users of smar phones don't know that their phones has a file system. A file system browser isn't even pre-installed on most Android based systems. And why should users care about file systems? As long as all is fine and dandy I don't really care if they do or not. However, when moving to a new phone and having to answer the question of whether their photos and contacts will automatically appear on their new device it's highly relevant. I think it'll even make the user more confident in other situations, allowing them to solve other problems as well. Further, I think that the same holds for programming. Knowing that your lock screen, your desktop environment and your file browser are different programs will help you eliminate all sorts of possible error sources when fixing a computer that lags when opening files after unlocking it.